Added token-bridge/overview.md (#392)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: products/token-bridge/overview.md

In short, the Token Bridge transfer process follows these key steps:

1.  **Attestation** - the token’s metadata (e.g., symbol, name, decimals) is registered on the destination chain. This step is only required once per token
2.  **Lock or burn** - to ensure one-to-one backing, the original token is either locked (on EVM chains) or burned (on chains like Solana)
3.  **Message emission** - the decentralized Guardian network generates and cryptographically signs a transfer message
4.  **Verification** - the signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
5.  **Mint or release** - a wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain

![Token Bridge Steps Diagram](docs/images/learn/transfers/token-bridge/token-bridge-diagram.webp)

## Use Cases

Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge.

- **Multichain Rewards and Token Utility in Decentralized Platforms** (e.g., [Chingari](https://chingari.io/){target=\_blank})** 

    - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/get-started/){target=\_blank} – transfer tokens between chains

>     - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/){target=\_blank} – facilitate the distribution and claiming processes of rewards

Reviewer: Let's link to the overview pages instead of get started

## Next Steps

[timeline(wormhole-docs/.snippets/text/products/token-bridge/token-bridge-timeline.json)]

If you are looking for guided practice, take a look at: 

> - [Build a Token Transfer App](docs/tutorials/typescript-sdk/tokens-via-token-bridge/){target=\_blank}—Follow our step-by-step guide to create a cross-chain token transfer app using the Wormhole SDK

Reviewer: This link is not correct anymore

---
title: Token Bridge Overview
description: With Wormhole Token Bridge, you can enable secure, multichain communication, build multichain apps, sync data, and coordinate actions across blockchains.

> categories: Token Bridge, Transfer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
categories: Token-Bridge, Transfer
```

---

# Token Bridge Overview

The Token Bridge is a decentralized protocol designed for transferring tokens across various blockchain networks. It facilitates secure, efficient, and composable multichain token movement without the need for centralized exchanges, wrapped token custodians, or liquidity pools.

This overview introduces Wormhole's Token Bridge's core design, flow, and functionality, and guides you through implementation.

## Key Features

> The Token Bridge is built to solve common problems in multichain token movement—loss of precision, fragmented liquidity, and slow settlement—by offering a trust-minimized and scalable alternative. It includes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Token Bridge is built to solve interoperability problems in multichain token transfers. Key features include:
```

> - **Universal interoperability** - transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across over 30 supported chains
> - **Wrapped asset model** - mint wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked or burned assets on the source chain
> - **Preserved metadata** - ensure that attributes like name, symbol, and decimals persist across chains
> - **Transfer with payload** - attach arbitrary data to token transfers, enabling downstream smart contract calls
> - **Decentralized security** - verified by the [Wormhole Guardian network](/docs/protocol/infrastructure/guardians/), ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Interoperability** - transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across over 30 supported chains
- **Wrapped asset model** - mint wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked assets on the source chain
- **Preserved metadata** - ensure that token properties like name, symbol, and decimals persist across chains
- **Transfer with payload** - attach arbitrary data to token transfers, enabling the triggering of specific actions
- **Decentralized security** - verified by the [Guardian Network](/docs/protocol/infrastructure/guardians/), ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity
```

---
title: Token Bridge Overview
description: With Wormhole Token Bridge, you can enable secure, multichain communication, build multichain apps, sync data, and coordinate actions across blockchains.
categories: Token-Bridge, Transfer
---

# Token Bridge Overview

The Token Bridge is a Wormhole module for bridging and wrapping tokens across various blockchain networks. Locking assets on one network and minting corresponding wrapped tokens on another facilitates secure, efficient, and composable multichain token movement.

This overview covers Wormhole's Token Bridge's main features, general processes, and possible next steps to begin building a cross-chain application.

## Key Features

The Token Bridge is built to solve interoperability problems in multichain token transfers. Key features include:

- **Interoperability** - transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across over 30 supported chains

> - **Wrapped asset model** - mint wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked assets on the source chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Lock-and-mint mechanism** - mint wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked assets on the source chain
```

3. **Message emission** - the Guardian Network verifies and signs the transfer message
4. **Verification** - the signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
5. **Minting** - a wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain

![Token Bridge Steps Diagram](/docs/images/products/token-bridge/overview/token-bridge-diagram.webp)

## Use Cases

Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge.

- **Multichain Rewards and Token Utility in Decentralized Platforms (e.g., [Chingari](https://chingari.io/){target=\_blank})** 

    - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/get-started/) – transfer tokens between chains
    - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/overview/) – facilitate the distribution and claiming processes of rewards

- **Tokenized Gaming Rewards**

    - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/get-started/) – handle the underlying lock-and-mint logic securely
    - [**Wormhole Connect**](/docs/products/connect/overview/) - provide a user-friendly way to move game tokens across chains

>     

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Token Bridge Overview
description: With Wormhole Token Bridge, you can enable secure, multichain communication, build multichain apps, sync data, and coordinate actions across blockchains.
categories: Token Bridge, Transfer
---

# Token Bridge Overview

The Token Bridge is a decentralized protocol designed for transferring tokens across various blockchain networks. It facilitates secure, efficient, and composable multichain token movement without the need for centralized exchanges, wrapped token custodians, or liquidity pools.

> This overview introduces Wormhole's Token Bridge's core design, flow, and functionality, and guides you through implementation.

Reviewer: It does not guide through implementation. It points to the next guides hahah but doesn't itself include any implementation details

## Key Features

The Token Bridge is built to solve common problems in multichain token movement—loss of precision, fragmented liquidity, and slow settlement—by offering a trust-minimized and scalable alternative. It includes:

- **Universal interoperability** - transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across over 30 supported chains
- **Wrapped asset model** - mint wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked or burned assets on the source chain
- **Preserved metadata** - ensure that attributes like name, symbol, and decimals persist across chains
- **Transfer with payload** - attach arbitrary data to token transfers, enabling downstream smart contract calls
- **Decentralized security** - verified by the [Wormhole Guardian network](/docs/protocol/infrastructure/guardians/), ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity

## How It Works

By handling token movement in a decentralized, permissionless, and metadata-aware way, the Token Bridge provides a reliable foundation for cross-chain interoperability at scale.

In short, the Token Bridge transfer process follows these key steps:

> 1.  **Attestation** - the token’s metadata (e.g., symbol, name, decimals) is registered on the destination chain. This step is only required once per token
> 2.  **Lock or burn** - to ensure one-to-one backing, the original token is either locked (on EVM chains) or burned (on chains like Solana)
> 3.  **Message emission** - the decentralized Guardian network generates and cryptographically signs a transfer message
> 4.  **Verification** - the signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
> 5.  **Mint or release** - a wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Attestation** - the token’s metadata (e.g., symbol, name, decimals) is registered on the destination chain. This step is only required once per token
2. **Lock or burn** - to ensure one-to-one backing, the original token is either locked (on EVM chains) or burned (on chains like Solana)
3. **Message emission** - the decentralized Guardian network generates and cryptographically signs a transfer message
4. **Verification** - the signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
5. **Mint or release** - a wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain
```

![Token Bridge Steps Diagram](/docs/images/products/token-bridge/overview/token-bridge-diagram.webp)

## Use Cases

> Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge. (one other use case)

Reviewer: One other use case?

Author: Oh haha, it was note to myself to draft the another use case, when I was making edits.

- **Multichain Rewards and Token Utility in Decentralized Platforms (e.g., [Chingari](https://chingari.io/){target=\_blank})** 

>     - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/overview/){target=\_blank} – transfer tokens between chains

Reviewer: Change this link to get started

    - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/overview/){target=\_blank} – facilitate the distribution and claiming processes of rewards

> - **Web3 Game Asset Transfers**

Reviewer: Cross-Chain Game Economies? I don't know. Web3 Game Asset Transfers just sounds a bit off to me

Reviewer 2: Multichain Game Token Integration? Tokenized Gaming Rewards?

>     - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/overview/) – handle the underlying lock-and-mint logic securely

Reviewer: Change this link to get started

    - [**Wormhole Connect**](/docs/products/connect/overview/) - provide a user-friendly way to move game tokens across chains
    

## Next Steps

If you are looking for guided practice, take a look at: 

[timeline(wormhole-docs/.snippets/text/products/token-bridge/overview/token-bridge-timeline.json)]

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Token Bridge Overview
description: With Wormhole Token Bridge, you can enable secure, cross-chain communication, build multichain apps, sync data, and coordinate actions across blockchains.

> categories: Token Bridge, Transfer, Core Concepts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
categories: Token-Bridge, Transfer
```

---

# Token Bridge Overview

> The Wormhole Token Bridge is a decentralized protocol for transferring tokens across Ethereum, Solana, BNB Chain, and more blockchains. It enables secure, efficient, and composable cross-chain token movement without relying on centralized exchanges, wrapped token custodians, or liquidity pools.

Reviewer: I'm a bit hesitant to list specific chains, as it could come across as favoring certain ones and may lead to future maintenance issues if support changes (e.g., if we stop supporting a chain like BNB). Can this please be generalized a bit instead?

Using a lock-and-mint architecture, the Token Bridge preserves token properties across chains, such as symbol, name, and precision. It also supports advanced features like Token Transfers with Messages, enabling smart contract interactions on the destination chain.

> This overview introduces Wormhole's Token Bridge's core design, flow, and functionality and guides you through implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This overview introduces Wormhole's Token Bridge's core design, flow, and functionality, and guides you through implementation.
```

## Key Features

> The Token Bridge is built to solve common problems in cross-chain token movement—loss of precision, fragmented liquidity, and slow settlement—by offering a trust-minimized and scalable alternative. It includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Token Bridge is built to solve common problems in multichain token movement—loss of precision, fragmented liquidity, and slow settlement—by offering a trust-minimized and scalable alternative. It includes:
```

We could iterate between **cross-chain** and **multichain**, as cross-chain is repeated many times throughout the page.

> **Universal Interoperability** - Transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across 30 supported chains
> **Wrapped Asset Model** - Mint-wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked or burned assets on the source chain
> **Preserved Metadata** - Ensure that attributes like name, symbol, and decimals persist across chains
> **Transfer With Payload** - Attach arbitrary data to token transfers, enabling downstream smart contract calls
> **Decentralized Security** - Verified by the Wormhole Guardian network, ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Universal interoperability** - transfer standards-compliant tokens (e.g., ERC-20, SPL) across 30 supported chains
**Wrapped asset model** - mint-wrapped tokens backed 1:1 by locked or burned assets on the source chain
**Preserved metadata** - ensure that attributes like name, symbol, and decimals persist across chains
**Transfer with payload** - attach arbitrary data to token transfers, enabling downstream smart contract calls
**Decentralized security** - verified by the Wormhole Guardian network, ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity
```

> **Decentralized Security** - Verified by the Wormhole Guardian network, ensuring cross-chain consistency and message authenticity

Reviewer 3: I would add a link to the Guardians page here

## How It Works

> By handling token movement in a decentralized, permissionless, and metadata-aware way, the Wormhole Token Bridge provides a reliable foundation for cross-chain interoperability at scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By handling token movement in a decentralized, permissionless, and metadata-aware way, the Token Bridge provides a reliable foundation for cross-chain interoperability at scale.
```

In short, the Token Bridge transfer process follows these key steps:

> 1.  **Attestation** - The token’s metadata (e.g., symbol, name, decimals) is registered on the destination chain. This step is only required once per token
> 2.  **Lock or Burn** - To ensure one-to-one backing, the original token is either locked (on EVM chains) or burned (on chains like Solana)
> 3.  **Message Emission** - The decentralized Guardian network generates and cryptographically signs a transfer message
> 4.  **Verification** - The signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
> 5.  **Mint or Release** - A wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Attestation** - the token’s metadata (e.g., symbol, name, decimals) is registered on the destination chain. This step is only required once per token
2.  **Lock or burn** - to ensure one-to-one backing, the original token is either locked (on EVM chains) or burned (on chains like Solana)
3.  **Message emission** - the decentralized Guardian network generates and cryptographically signs a transfer message
4.  **Verification** - the signed message is submitted and verified on the destination chain to confirm authenticity
5.  **Mint or release** - a wrapped version of the token is minted (or the native token is released) to the recipient on the destination chain
```

## Use Cases

> The Wormhole Token Bridge enables seamless and efficient transfer of digital assets across different blockchains. Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Token Bridge enables seamless and efficient transfer of digital assets across different blockchains. Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge:
```

> The Wormhole Token Bridge enables seamless and efficient transfer of digital assets across different blockchains. Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are key use cases that highlight the power and versatility of the Token Bridge.
```

Maybe no need to mention this again, as it was stated in the introduction and other sections?

- **Cross-Chain Swaps and Liquidity Aggregation**
    - [**Wormhole Connect**](/docs/products/connect/get-started/){target=\_blank} – provides a user-friendly interface for cross-chain asset transfers
    - [**Native Token Transfer**](/docs/products/native-token-transfers/get-started/){target=\_blank} – allows the movement of native tokens across connected chains

>     - [**Queries**](/docs/products/queries/get-started/){target=\_blank} – can be used to fetch real-time pricing data to optimize swap execution

Reviewer: This doesn't highlight using Token Bridge

- **Borrowing and Lending Across Chains** (e.g., [Folks Finance](https://wormhole.com/case-studies/folks-finance){target=\_blank})
    - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/){target=\_blank} – coordinates loan requests, repayments, and liquidation events across chains
    - [**Native Token Transfer**](/docs/products/native-token-transfers/get-started/){target=\_blank} – enables the transfer of collateral assets between chains
    - [**Queries**](/docs/products/queries/get-started/){target=\_blank} – can fetch interest rates and collateral asset prices from different chains

- **Native Bitcoin (BTC) Transfers to Other Chains**

>     - [**Native Token Transfer**](/docs/products/native-token-transfers/get-started/){target=\_blank} – specifically designed to handle the transfer of native assets like BTC across chains

Reviewer: These don't highlight using Token Bridge

- **Cross-Chain Rewards and Token Utility in Decentralized Platforms** (e.g., [Chingari](https://chingari.io/){target=\_blank})

>     - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/get-started/){target=\_blank} – the core mechanism for transferring tokens (including reward tokens) between chains
>     - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/){target=\_blank} – can facilitate the distribution and claiming processes of these rewards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - [**Token Bridge**](/docs/products/token-bridge/get-started/){target=\_blank} – transfer tokens between chains
    - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/){target=\_blank} – facilitate the distribution and claiming processes of rewards
```

with the other use cases I tried keeping the descriptions minimal and straight to the point

## Next Steps

> Now that you're familiar with the core of the Wormhole Token Bridge—it’s time to put it into action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you're familiar with the core of the Token Bridge—it’s time to put it into action.
```

> Whether you're a developer, founder, or DeFi builder, you can integrate seamless cross-chain token transfers into your app in just a few steps. Dive into our hands-on tutorials and start shipping:

Reviewer: This sounds a little AI-ish

- [Build a Token Transfer App](docs/tutorials/typescript-sdk/tokens-via-token-bridge/){target=\_blank}—Follow our step-by-step guide to create a cross-chain token transfer app using the Wormhole SDK

> - [Launch Cross-Chain Smart Contracts](docs/tutorials/solidity-sdk/cross-chain-token-contracts/){target=\_blank} – Use the Hello Token tutorial to deploy contracts that send tokens and trigger logic on the destination chain

Reviewer: There are new paths for the Token Bridge tutorials - the first one has a new name "Complete Token Transfer Workflow" and the second one is under the Messaging section (maybe we need to revisit this cc: @ilariae @martin0995 @dawnkelly09). So just heads up on that.

Also, I think for next steps we should push users to the get started page.

Author: In the new push I added the get-started as step 1 to the timeline

> Test it, launch it, and scale it across chains. The infrastructure is ready—now it’s your move.

Reviewer: This also sounds a little AI-ish
